A proper article indicates that its noun is proper, and refers to a unique entity. It may be the name of a person, the name of a place, 
the name of a planet, etc. The Māori language has the proper article a, which is used for personal nouns; so, "a Pita" means "Peter". 
In Māori, when the personal nouns have the definite or indefinite article as an important part of it, both articles are present; for example, 
the phrase "a Te Rauparaha", which contains both the proper article a and the definite article Te refers to the person name Te Rauparaha.
The definite article is sometimes also used with proper names, which are already specified by definition (there is just one of them). 
For example: the Amazon, the Hebrides. In these cases, the definite article may be considered superfluous. Its presence can be accounted 
for by the assumption that they are shorthand for a longer phrase in which the name is a specifier, i.e. the Amazon River, the Hebridean Islands.
[citation needed] Where the nouns in such longer phrases cannot be omitted, the definite article is universally kept: the United States, 
the People's Republic of China.
This distinction can sometimes become a political matter: the former usage the Ukraine stressed the word's Russian meaning of "borderlands"; 
as Ukraine became a fully independent state following the collapse of the Soviet Union, it requested that formal mentions of its name omit 
the article. Similar shifts in usage have occurred in the names of Sudan and both Congo (Brazzaville) and Congo (Kinshasa); a move in the other
 direction occurred with The Gambia. In certain languages, such as French and Italian, definite articles are used with all or most names of 
 countries: la France, le Canada, l'Allemagne; l'Italia, la Spagna, il Brasile
 Linguists believe the common ancestor of the Indo-European languages, Proto-Indo-European, did not have articles. Most of the languages in 
 this family do not have definite or indefinite articles: there is no article in Latin or Sanskrit, nor in some modern Indo-European languages, 
 such as the families of Slavic languages (except for Bulgarian and Macedonian, which are rather distinctive among the Slavic languages in their 
 grammar, and some Northern Russian dialects[7]), Baltic languages and many Indo-Aryan languages. Although Classical Greek had a definite article 
 (which has survived into Modern Greek and which bears strong functional resemblance to the German definite article, which it is related to), 
 the earlier Homeric Greek used this article largely as a pronoun or demonstrative, whereas the earliest known form of Greek known as Mycenaean 
 Greek did not have any articles. Articles developed independently in several language families.
Not all languages have both definite and indefinite articles, and some languages have different types of definite and indefinite articles to 
distinguish finer shades of meaning: for example, French and Italian have a partitive article used for indefinite mass nouns, whereas Colognian 
has two distinct sets of definite articles indicating focus and uniqueness, and Macedonian uses definite articles in a demonstrative sense, with 
a tripartite distinction (proximal, medial, distal) based on distance from the speaker or interlocutor. The words this and that 
(and their plurals, these and those) can be understood in English as, ultimately, forms of the definite article the 
(whose declension in Old English included thaes, an ancestral form of this/that and these/those).